
h1. Workspace

h2. Overview

This directory contains a workspace for developing content for the Clever Algorithms book by Jason Brownlee.

JabRef is proposed for managing the bibtex: http://jabref.sourceforge.net/

Provides a collection of notes and technical reports, organized into directories by topic/report. The methodology for content development involves the completion of a large number of small (2-4 man days), discrete, independent, formal reports on topics in or about the book that may be further developed or incorporated directly into the book itself. It is a methodology that promotes the prolonged capture of ad hoc and dis-contiguous effort to support project momentum and motivation through the production of tangible work product that contributes to the project objective. 

See here: /workspace/00-notes/project-assessment-20100102-JB.txt

This methodology worked very well for me in the past while working on my PhD project, see:
 
See here for PhD work product: http://www.ict.swin.edu.au/personal/jbrownlee/
See here for description of the methodology in a broader context: http://www.scribd.com/doc/22949568/Debrief-of-PhD-Project-Practices

h2. Technical Reports

This section contains a listing of outcomes and deliverables during the project. 

*Please refer to the book for the final content, all technical reports should be considered preliminary and now outdated*. 

h3. Technical Reports

h4. Overview

* Jason Brownlee. "The Clever Algorithms Project: Overview":http://github.com/jbrownlee/CleverAlgorithms/raw/master/workspace/release/techreport-20100105-1.pdf. Technical Report CA-TR-20100105-1, The Clever Algorithms Project http://www.CleverAlgorithms.com, January 2010.
* Jason Brownlee. "A Template for Standardized Algorithm Descriptions":http://github.com/jbrownlee/CleverAlgorithms/raw/master/workspace/release/techreport-20100107-1.pdf. Technical Report CA-TR-20100107-1, The Clever Algorithms Project http://www.CleverAlgorithms.com, January 2010.
* Jason Brownlee. "The Clever Algorithms Project: Inspiring Works":http://github.com/jbrownlee/CleverAlgorithms/raw/master/workspace/release/techreport-20100109-1.pdf. Technical Report CA-TR-20100109-1, The Clever Algorithms Project http://www.CleverAlgorithms.com, January 2010.
* Jason Brownlee. "Data-Driven Optimization Algorithm Selection":http://github.com/jbrownlee/CleverAlgorithms/raw/master/workspace/release/techreport-20100112-1.pdf. Technical Report CA-TR-20100112-1, The Clever Algorithms Project http://www.CleverAlgorithms.com, January 2010.
* Jason Brownlee. "A Gentle Introduction to AI: Natural Computation, Computational Intelligence and Metaheuristics":http://github.com/jbrownlee/CleverAlgorithms/raw/master/workspace/release/techreport-20100115-1.pdf. Technical Report CA-TR-20100115-1, The Clever Algorithms Project http://www.CleverAlgorithms.com, January 2010.
* Jason Brownlee. "Unconventional Optimization Algorithms: An Introduction":http://github.com/jbrownlee/CleverAlgorithms/raw/master/workspace/release/techreport-20100118-1.pdf. Technical Report CA-TR-20100118-1, The Clever Algorithms Project http://www.CleverAlgorithms.com, January 2010.
* Jason Brownlee. "Programming Language Selection for Optimization Algorithms":http://github.com/jbrownlee/CleverAlgorithms/raw/master/workspace/release/techreport-20100122-1.pdf. Technical Report CA-TR-20100122-1, The Clever Algorithms Project http://www.CleverAlgorithms.com, January 2010.

h4. Stochastic Algorithms

* Jason Brownlee. "Random Search":http://github.com/jbrownlee/CleverAlgorithms/raw/master/workspace/release/techreport-20100129-1.pdf. Technical Report CA-TR-20100129-1, The Clever Algorithms Project http://www.CleverAlgorithms.com, January 2010.
* Jason Brownlee. "Adaptive Random Search":http://github.com/jbrownlee/CleverAlgorithms/raw/master/workspace/release/techreport-20100131-1.pdf. Technical Report CA-TR-20100131-1, The Clever Algorithms Project http://www.CleverAlgorithms.com, January 2010.
* Jason Brownlee. "Stochastic Hill Climbing":http://github.com/jbrownlee/CleverAlgorithms/raw/master/workspace/release/techreport-20100202-1.pdf. Technical Report CA-TR-20100202-1, The Clever Algorithms Project http://www.CleverAlgorithms.com, February 2010.
* Jason Brownlee. "Guided Local Search":http://github.com/jbrownlee/CleverAlgorithms/raw/master/workspace/release/techreport-20100204-1.pdf. Technical Report CA-TR-20100204-1, The Clever Algorithms Project http://www.CleverAlgorithms.com, February 2010.
* Jason Brownlee. "Variable Neighbourhood Search":http://github.com/jbrownlee/CleverAlgorithms/raw/master/workspace/release/techreport-20100206-1.pdf. Technical Report CA-TR-20100206-1, The Clever Algorithms Project http://www.CleverAlgorithms.com, February 2010.
* Jason Brownlee. "Greedy Randomized Adaptive Search Procedure":http://github.com/jbrownlee/CleverAlgorithms/raw/master/workspace/release/techreport-20100209-1.pdf. Technical Report CA-TR-20100209-1, The Clever Algorithms Project http://www.CleverAlgorithms.com, February 2010.
* Jason Brownlee. "Iterated Local Search":http://github.com/jbrownlee/CleverAlgorithms/raw/master/workspace/release/techreport-20100210-1.pdf. Technical Report CA-TR-20100210-1, The Clever Algorithms Project http://www.CleverAlgorithms.com, February 2010.
* Jason Brownlee. "Tabu Search":http://github.com/jbrownlee/CleverAlgorithms/raw/master/workspace/release/techreport-20100213-1.pdf. Technical Report CA-TR-20100213-1, The Clever Algorithms Project http://www.CleverAlgorithms.com, February 2010.
* Jason Brownlee. "Scatter Search":http://github.com/jbrownlee/CleverAlgorithms/raw/master/workspace/release/techreport-20100216-1.pdf. Technical Report CA-TR-20100216-1, The Clever Algorithms Project http://www.CleverAlgorithms.com, February 2010.
* Jason Brownlee. "Reactive Tabu Search":http://github.com/jbrownlee/CleverAlgorithms/raw/master/workspace/release/techreport-20100221-1.pdf. Technical Report CA-TR-20100221-1, The Clever Algorithms Project http://www.CleverAlgorithms.com, February 2010.
* Jason Brownlee. "Stochastic Algorithms":http://github.com/jbrownlee/CleverAlgorithms/raw/master/workspace/release/techreport-20100223-1.pdf. Technical Report CA-TR-20100223-1, The Clever Algorithms Project http://www.CleverAlgorithms.com, February 2010.

h4. Evolutionary Algorithms

* Jason Brownlee. "Genetic Algorithm":http://github.com/jbrownlee/CleverAlgorithms/raw/master/workspace/release/techreport-20100303-1.pdf. Technical Report CA-TR-20100303-1, The Clever Algorithms Project http://www.CleverAlgorithms.com, March 2010.
* Jason Brownlee. "Genetic Programming":http://github.com/jbrownlee/CleverAlgorithms/raw/master/workspace/release/techreport-20100308-1.pdf. Technical Report CA-TR-20100308-1, The Clever Algorithms Project http://www.CleverAlgorithms.com, March 2010.
* Jason Brownlee. "Evolutionary Programming":http://github.com/jbrownlee/CleverAlgorithms/raw/master/workspace/release/techreport-20100313-1.pdf. Technical Report CA-TR-20100313-1, The Clever Algorithms Project http://www.CleverAlgorithms.com, March 2010.
* Jason Brownlee. "Evolution Strategies":http://github.com/jbrownlee/CleverAlgorithms/raw/master/workspace/release/techreport-20100326-1.pdf. Technical Report CA-TR-20100326-1, The Clever Algorithms Project http://www.CleverAlgorithms.com, March 2010.
* Jason Brownlee. "Differential Evolution":http://github.com/jbrownlee/CleverAlgorithms/raw/master/workspace/release/techreport-20100402-1.pdf. Technical Report CA-TR-20100402-1, The Clever Algorithms Project http://www.CleverAlgorithms.com, April 2010.
* Jason Brownlee. "Grammatical Evolution":http://github.com/jbrownlee/CleverAlgorithms/raw/master/workspace/release/techreport-20100403-1.pdf. Technical Report CA-TR-20100403-1, The Clever Algorithms Project http://www.CleverAlgorithms.com, April 2010.
* Jason Brownlee. "Gene Expression Programming":http://github.com/jbrownlee/CleverAlgorithms/raw/master/workspace/release/techreport-20100404-1.pdf. Technical Report CA-TR-20100404-1, The Clever Algorithms Project http://www.CleverAlgorithms.com, April 2010.
* Jason Brownlee. "Learning Classifier System":http://github.com/jbrownlee/CleverAlgorithms/raw/master/workspace/release/techreport-20100411-1.pdf. Technical Report CA-TR-20100411-1, The Clever Algorithms Project http://www.CleverAlgorithms.com, April 2010.
* Jason Brownlee. "Non-dominated Sorting Genetic Algorithm":http://github.com/jbrownlee/CleverAlgorithms/raw/master/workspace/release/techreport-20100426-1.pdf. Technical Report CA-TR-20100426-1, The Clever Algorithms Project http://www.CleverAlgorithms.com, April 2010.
* Jason Brownlee. "Strength Pareto Evolutionary Algorithm":http://github.com/jbrownlee/CleverAlgorithms/raw/master/workspace/release/techreport-20100508-1.pdf. Technical Report CA-TR-20100508-1, The Clever Algorithms Project http://www.CleverAlgorithms.com, May 2010.
* Jason Brownlee. "Evolutionary Algorithms":http://github.com/jbrownlee/CleverAlgorithms/raw/master/workspace/release/techreport-20100509-1.pdf. Technical Report CA-TR-20100509-1, The Clever Algorithms Project http://www.CleverAlgorithms.com, May 2010.

h4. Immune Algorithms

* Jason Brownlee. "Clonal Selection Algorithm":http://github.com/jbrownlee/CleverAlgorithms/raw/master/workspace/release/techreport-20100515-1.pdf. Technical Report CA-TR-20100515-1, The Clever Algorithms Project http://www.CleverAlgorithms.com, May 2010.
* Jason Brownlee. "Negative Selection Algorithm":http://github.com/jbrownlee/CleverAlgorithms/raw/master/workspace/release/techreport-20100516-1.pdf. Technical Report CA-TR-20100516-1, The Clever Algorithms Project http://www.CleverAlgorithms.com, May 2010.
* Jason Brownlee. "Artificial Immune Network":http://github.com/jbrownlee/CleverAlgorithms/raw/master/workspace/release/techreport-20101114-1.pdf. Technical Report CA-TR-20101114-1, The Clever Algorithms Project http://www.CleverAlgorithms.com, November 2010.
* Jason Brownlee. "Artificial Immune Recognition System":http://github.com/jbrownlee/CleverAlgorithms/raw/master/workspace/release/techreport-20101119-1.pdf. Technical Report CA-TR-20101119-1, The Clever Algorithms Project http://www.CleverAlgorithms.com, November 2010.
* Jason Brownlee. "Dendritic Cell Algorithm":http://github.com/jbrownlee/CleverAlgorithms/raw/master/workspace/release/techreport-20101120-1.pdf. Technical Report CA-TR-20101120-1, The Clever Algorithms Project http://www.CleverAlgorithms.com, November 2010.
* Jason Brownlee. "Immune Algorithms":http://github.com/jbrownlee/CleverAlgorithms/raw/master/workspace/release/techreport-20101114a-1.pdf. Technical Report CA-TR-20101114a-1, The Clever Algorithms Project http://www.CleverAlgorithms.com, November 2010.

h4. Swarm Algorithms

* Jason Brownlee. "Particle Swarm Optimization":http://github.com/jbrownlee/CleverAlgorithms/raw/master/workspace/release/techreport-20101114b-1.pdf. Technical Report CA-TR-20101114b-1, The Clever Algorithms Project http://www.CleverAlgorithms.com, November 2010.
* Jason Brownlee. "Ant System":http://github.com/jbrownlee/CleverAlgorithms/raw/master/workspace/release/techreport-20101115-1.pdf. Technical Report CA-TR-20101115-1, The Clever Algorithms Project http://www.CleverAlgorithms.com, November 2010.
* Jason Brownlee. "Ant Colony System":http://github.com/jbrownlee/CleverAlgorithms/raw/master/workspace/release/techreport-20101115a-1.pdf. Technical Report CA-TR-20101115a-1, The Clever Algorithms Project http://www.CleverAlgorithms.com, November 2010.
* Jason Brownlee. "Bees Algorithm":http://github.com/jbrownlee/CleverAlgorithms/raw/master/workspace/release/techreport-20101120a-1.pdf. Technical Report CA-TR-20101120a-1, The Clever Algorithms Project http://www.CleverAlgorithms.com, November 2010.
* Jason Brownlee. "Bacterial Foraging Optimization Algorithm":http://github.com/jbrownlee/CleverAlgorithms/raw/master/workspace/release/techreport-20101121-1.pdf. Technical Report CA-TR-20101121-1, The Clever Algorithms Project http://www.CleverAlgorithms.com, November 2010.
* Jason Brownlee. "Swarm Algorithms":http://github.com/jbrownlee/CleverAlgorithms/raw/master/workspace/release/techreport-20101115b-1.pdf. Technical Report CA-TR-20101115b-1, The Clever Algorithms Project http://www.CleverAlgorithms.com, November 2010.

h4. Physical Algorithms

* Jason Brownlee. "Simulated Annealing":http://github.com/jbrownlee/CleverAlgorithms/raw/master/workspace/release/techreport-20101115c-1.pdf. Technical Report CA-TR-20101115c-1, The Clever Algorithms Project http://www.CleverAlgorithms.com, November 2010.
* Jason Brownlee. "Memetic Algorithm":http://github.com/jbrownlee/CleverAlgorithms/raw/master/workspace/release/techreport-20101116-1.pdf. Technical Report CA-TR-20101116-1, The Clever Algorithms Project http://www.CleverAlgorithms.com, November 2010.
* Jason Brownlee. "Extremal Optimization":http://github.com/jbrownlee/CleverAlgorithms/raw/master/workspace/release/techreport-20101116a-1.pdf. Technical Report CA-TR-20101116a-1, The Clever Algorithms Project http://www.CleverAlgorithms.com, November 2010.
* Jason Brownlee. "Cultural Algorithm":http://github.com/jbrownlee/CleverAlgorithms/raw/master/workspace/release/techreport-20101121a-1.pdf. Technical Report CA-TR-20101121a-1, The Clever Algorithms Project http://www.CleverAlgorithms.com, November 2010.
* Jason Brownlee. "Harmony Search":http://github.com/jbrownlee/CleverAlgorithms/raw/master/workspace/release/techreport-20101122-1.pdf. Technical Report CA-TR-20101122-1, The Clever Algorithms Project http://www.CleverAlgorithms.com, November 2010.
* Jason Brownlee. "Physical Algorithms":http://github.com/jbrownlee/CleverAlgorithms/raw/master/workspace/release/techreport-20101125-1.pdf. Technical Report CA-TR-20101125-1, The Clever Algorithms Project http://www.CleverAlgorithms.com, November 2010.

h4. Neural Algorithms

* Jason Brownlee. "Perceptron":http://github.com/jbrownlee/CleverAlgorithms/raw/master/workspace/release/techreport-20101116b-1.pdf. Technical Report CA-TR-20101116b-1, The Clever Algorithms Project http://www.CleverAlgorithms.com, November 2010.
* Jason Brownlee. "Back-propagation Algorithm":http://github.com/jbrownlee/CleverAlgorithms/raw/master/workspace/release/techreport-20101117-1.pdf. Technical Report CA-TR-20101117-1, The Clever Algorithms Project http://www.CleverAlgorithms.com, November 2010.
* Jason Brownlee. "Learning Vector Quantization":http://github.com/jbrownlee/CleverAlgorithms/raw/master/workspace/release/techreport-20101118-1.pdf. Technical Report CA-TR-20101118-1, The Clever Algorithms Project http://www.CleverAlgorithms.com, November 2010.
* Jason Brownlee. "Hopfield Network":http://github.com/jbrownlee/CleverAlgorithms/raw/master/workspace/release/techreport-20101124-1.pdf. Technical Report CA-TR-20101124-1, The Clever Algorithms Project http://www.CleverAlgorithms.com, November 2010.
* Jason Brownlee. "Self-Organizing Map":http://github.com/jbrownlee/CleverAlgorithms/raw/master/workspace/release/techreport-20101124a-1.pdf. Technical Report CA-TR-20101124a-1, The Clever Algorithms Project http://www.CleverAlgorithms.com, November 2010.
* Jason Brownlee. "Neural Algorithms":http://github.com/jbrownlee/CleverAlgorithms/raw/master/workspace/release/techreport-20101124b-1.pdf. Technical Report CA-TR-20101124b-1, The Clever Algorithms Project http://www.CleverAlgorithms.com, November 2010.

h4. Probabilistic Algorithms

* Jason Brownlee. "Population-Based Incremental Learning":http://github.com/jbrownlee/CleverAlgorithms/raw/master/workspace/release/techreport-20101118a-1.pdf. Technical Report CA-TR-20101118a-1, The Clever Algorithms Project http://www.CleverAlgorithms.com, November 2010.
* Jason Brownlee. "Univariate Marginal Distribution Algorithm":http://github.com/jbrownlee/CleverAlgorithms/raw/master/workspace/release/techreport-20101118b-1.pdf. Technical Report CA-TR-20101118b-1, The Clever Algorithms Project http://www.CleverAlgorithms.com, November 2010.
* Jason Brownlee. "Compact Genetic Algorithm":http://github.com/jbrownlee/CleverAlgorithms/raw/master/workspace/release/techreport-20101118c-1.pdf. Technical Report CA-TR-20101118c-1, The Clever Algorithms Project http://www.CleverAlgorithms.com, November 2010.
* Jason Brownlee. "Cross-Entropy Method":http://github.com/jbrownlee/CleverAlgorithms/raw/master/workspace/release/techreport-20101122a-1.pdf. Technical Report CA-TR-20101122a-1, The Clever Algorithms Project http://www.CleverAlgorithms.com, November 2010.
* Jason Brownlee. "Bayesian Optimization Algorithm":http://github.com/jbrownlee/CleverAlgorithms/raw/master/workspace/release/techreport-20101123-1.pdf. Technical Report CA-TR-20101123-1, The Clever Algorithms Project http://www.CleverAlgorithms.com, November 2010.
* Jason Brownlee. "Probabilistic Algorithms":http://github.com/jbrownlee/CleverAlgorithms/raw/master/workspace/release/techreport-20101125a-1.pdf. Technical Report CA-TR-20101125a-1, The Clever Algorithms Project http://www.CleverAlgorithms.com, November 2010.

h4. Advanced Topics

* Jason Brownlee. "The Ruby Programming Language: A Quick-Start Guide":http://github.com/jbrownlee/CleverAlgorithms/raw/master/workspace/release/techreport-20101126-1.pdf. Technical Report CA-TR-20101126-1, The Clever Algorithms Project http://www.CleverAlgorithms.com, November 2010.
* Jason Brownlee. "Clever Algorithms: Programming Paradigms":http://github.com/jbrownlee/CleverAlgorithms/raw/master/workspace/release/techreport-20101205-1.pdf. Technical Report CA-TR-20101205-1, The Clever Algorithms Project http://www.CleverAlgorithms.com, December 2010.
* Jason Brownlee. "Clever Algorithms: Devising New Algorithms":http://github.com/jbrownlee/CleverAlgorithms/raw/master/workspace/release/techreport-20101205a-1.pdf. Technical Report CA-TR-20101205a-1, The Clever Algorithms Project http://www.CleverAlgorithms.com, December 2010.
* Jason Brownlee. "Clever Algorithms: Benchmarking Algorithms":http://github.com/jbrownlee/CleverAlgorithms/raw/master/workspace/release/techreport-20101206-1.pdf. Technical Report CA-TR-20101206-1, The Clever Algorithms Project http://www.CleverAlgorithms.com, December 2010.
* Jason Brownlee. "Clever Algorithms: Unit Testing Algorithms":http://github.com/jbrownlee/CleverAlgorithms/raw/master/workspace/release/techreport-20101206a-1.pdf. Technical Report CA-TR-20101206a-1, The Clever Algorithms Project http://www.CleverAlgorithms.com, December 2010.
* Jason Brownlee. "Clever Algorithms: Problem Solving Methodology":http://github.com/jbrownlee/CleverAlgorithms/raw/master/workspace/release/techreport-20101208-1.pdf. Technical Report CA-TR-20101208-1, The Clever Algorithms Project http://www.CleverAlgorithms.com, December 2010.
* Jason Brownlee. "Clever Algorithms: Algorithm Visualization":http://github.com/jbrownlee/CleverAlgorithms/raw/master/workspace/release/techreport-20101211-1.pdf. Technical Report CA-TR-20101211-1, The Clever Algorithms Project http://www.CleverAlgorithms.com, December 2010.
